docs: Improved metrics troubleshooting (#1413)
kyma-project/telemetry-manager: docs/user/04-metrics.md

| `prometheus.io/path`               | `/metrics`, `/custom_metrics` | `/metrics` | Defines the HTTP path where Prometheus can find metrics data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| `prometheus.io/scheme`             | `http`, `https` | If Istio is active, `https` is supported; otherwise, only `http` is available. The default scheme is `http` unless an Istio sidecar is present, denoted by the label `security.istio.io/tlsMode=istio`, in which case `https` becomes the default. | Determines the protocol used for scraping metrics — either HTTPS with mTLS or plain HTTP. |

> An example configuration for a `Service` might be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, see the following `Service` configuration:
```

Author: Fixed

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  annotations:
    prometheus.io/port: "8080"
    prometheus.io/scrape: "true"
  name: sample
spec:
  ports:
  - name: http-metrics
    appProtocol: http
    port: 8080
    protocol: TCP
    targetPort: 8080
  selector:
    app: sample
  type: ClusterIP
```

> > [!NOTE]

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of two Note boxes right after each other.
In some cases, both touch the same topics and can be combined in one Note.
In some cases, one (or both) can be formatted as normal text.

Notes should be the exception within normal text (so that they stand out), and shouldn't contain the majority of content.

Author: I agree and didn't know better, what is your concrete propsal?

Author: Saw you next comment later. Added the note as text above the example

> > When running the pod targetted by a Service with Istio, please ensure that Istio can derive the used [appProtocol](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#application-protocol) from the Service port definition. This can be achieved by prefixing the port name with the protocol like in `http-metrics`, or by explicitly defining the `appProtocol` attribute. If Istio cannot derive the protocol, the communication for scraping the metric endpoint cannot be established.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you're running the Pod targeted by a Service with Istio, Istio must be able to derive the [appProtocol](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#application-protocol) from the Service port definition; otherwise the communication for scraping the metric endpoint cannot be established. You must either prefix the port name with the protocol like in `http-metrics`, or explicitly define the `appProtocol` attribute.
```
not sure what "like in `http-metrics`" means. Wait, this refers to the code sample above, right? 
Then why not add this paragraph (as a normal paragraph, no need for Note), into line 325, before the sentence that introduces the code sample?

Author: prefix the port name with the protocol like in `http-metrics`
The example prefixes the port name in the name, it starts with `http-`

2023-08-29T09:53:07.123Z warn internal/transaction.go:111 Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint {"kind": "receiver", "name": "prometheus/app-pods", "data_type": "metrics", "scrape_timestamp": 1693302787120, "target_labels": "{__name__=\"up\", instance=\"10.42.0.18:8080\", job=\"app-pods\"}"}
```

> 

Reviewer: <!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
```

> **Cause 1**: The workload is not configured to use 'STRICT' mTLS mode. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#_4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cause 1**: The workload is not configured to use 'STRICT' mTLS mode. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).
```
I think the link is broken with underscore

Author: Without it is also broken... that's why I tried it with underscore

Author: Not sure how to fix it, canwe find a solution without link?

Reviewer: arrrrgh :(

Reviewer: After merging https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18744, it should work without underscores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cause 1**: The workload is not configured to use 'STRICT' mTLS mode. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#step-4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).
```

Reviewer: as suggested in https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/pull/1413#discussion_r1743699134, we might have to use html so that both, docsify and github, render it correctly.

Author: fixed

**Remedy 1**: You can either set up 'STRICT' mTLS mode or HTTP scraping:

- Configure the workload using “STRICT” mTLS mode (for example, by applying a corresponding PeerAuthentication).
- Set up scraping through HTTP by applying the `prometheus.io/scheme=http` annotation.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- markdown-link-check-disable-next-line -->
```

> **Cause 2**: The Service definition enabling the scrape with Prometheus annotations does not reveal the application protocol to use in the port definition. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#_4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cause 2**: The Service definition enabling the scrape with Prometheus annotations does not reveal the application protocol to use in the port definition. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).
```
link is broken with underscore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Cause 2**: The Service definition enabling the scrape with Prometheus annotations does not reveal the application protocol to use in the port definition. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#step-4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).
```

Reviewer 2: Using the heading: 
`### <a name="_4-activate-prometheus-based-metric"></a>4. Activate Prometheus-Based Metric</a>`
and the link: 
`[Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#_4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics)`
works on both GitHub and Doscify. I don't like this workaround but can't find anything better

Author: fixed

2023-08-29T09:53:07.123Z warn internal/transaction.go:111 Failed to scrape Prometheus endpoint {"kind": "receiver", "name": "prometheus/app-pods", "data_type": "metrics", "scrape_timestamp": 1693302787120, "target_labels": "{__name__=\"up\", instance=\"10.42.0.18:8080\", job=\"app-pods\"}"}
```

**Cause 1**: The workload is not configured to use 'STRICT' mTLS mode. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#_4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).

**Remedy 1**: You can either set up 'STRICT' mTLS mode or HTTP scraping:

- Configure the workload using “STRICT” mTLS mode (for example, by applying a corresponding PeerAuthentication).
- Set up scraping through HTTP by applying the `prometheus.io/scheme=http` annotation.

> **Cause 2**: The service enabling the scrape via the prometheus annotations is not revealing the application protocol to use in the port definition. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#_4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).

Reviewer: is this a "service" or a "Service"? Capitalization matters :/

```suggestion
**Cause 2**: The service enabling the scrape with Prometheus annotations does not reveal the application protocol to use in the port definition. For details, see [Activate Prometheus-based metrics](#_4-activate-prometheus-based-metrics).
```

> **Remedy 2**: Define the application protocol in the Service port definition by either prefixing the port name with the protocol, like in `http-metrics` or define the `appProtocol`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remedy 2**: Define the application protocol in the Service port definition by either prefixing the port name with the protocol, like in `http-metrics` or define the `appProtocol` attribute.
```
